[Workflows] Require read on execution detail routes (#285645)
elastic/kibana: docs/release-notes/breaking-changes.md

% BREAKING CHANGES
% Paste in breaking-changes.md

## 9.6.0 [kibana-9.6.0-breaking-changes]

$$$kibana-285645$$$
::::{dropdown} Workflow execution detail routes now require the `read` privilege in addition to `readExecution`

> **Details**<br> The following Workflows public API routes previously accepted callers holding only the `workflowsManagement:readExecution` privilege (`workflow_execution_read` sub-feature). Because execution documents include a YAML snapshot of the workflow definition, such callers could recover the full workflow definition without holding the `read` privilege. These routes now require both `read` and `readExecution`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Details**<br> The following Workflows API routes previously accepted callers holding only the `workflowsManagement:readExecution` privilege (the **Read Workflow Execution** sub-feature privilege, `workflow_execution_read`). Execution documents include a YAML snapshot of the workflow definition, so those callers could retrieve a workflow definition without holding the `workflowsManagement:read` privilege (**Read**, `workflow_read`). Reading execution data now requires both privileges. This applies to every execution read route, including the list and search routes:
```

- `GET /api/workflows/executions/{executionId}`
- `GET /api/workflows/executions/{executionId}/step/{stepExecutionId}`
- `GET /api/workflows/executions/{executionId}/logs`
- `GET /api/workflows/executions/{executionId}/children`
- `GET /api/workflows/workflow/{workflowId}/executions`
- `GET /api/workflows/workflow/{workflowId}/executions/steps`
- `GET /api/workflows/workflow/executions`

**Impact**<br> API callers or custom Kibana roles that grant `workflow_execution_read` without `workflow_read` receive HTTP 403 on the routes listed above.

> **Action**<br> Add the `workflow_read` sub-feature privilege to any custom role that grants `workflow_execution_read`. The built-in `read` role already includes both privileges and is not affected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Action**<br> In any role that customizes Workflows sub-feature privileges, add **Read** (`workflow_read`) under **Analytics → Workflows → Workflows Actions** alongside **Read Workflow Execution** (`workflow_execution_read`). Roles that grant `All` or `Read` on **Analytics → Workflows** already include both privileges and need no change.
```
